<!--Add sections using template below.After adding section -- run md_toc and paste result as TOC.examples that are to be tested place in "```python <code> "examples that should not be tested by pytest -- in " ```python <code>" (note space at start).==== TEMPLATE## TemplateDescription### ConfigurationThere is no related configuration.### APITBD### Simple usageTBD### There is more TBD==== TEMPLATE END--># PyDesc cookbook  - [Configuration](#configuration)  - [Loading structures](#loading-structures)    - [Configuration](#configuration-1)    - [API](#api)    - [Simple usage](#simple-usage)    - [There is more](#there-is-more)  - [Trajectories](#trajectories)    - [Configuration](#configuration-2)    - [API](#api-1)    - [Simple usage](#simple-usage-1)  - [Selections](#selections)  - [Contact maps](#contact-maps)    - [Configuration](#configuration-3)    - [API](#api-2)    - [Simple usage](#simple-usage-2)    - [There is more ](#there-is-more-)  - [Structure comparison](#structure-comparison)    - [Overfit](#overfit)    - [Compdesc](#compdesc)    - [FitDesc](#fitdesc)  - [Alignments](#alignments)  - [Integration with PyMOL](#integration-with-pymol)    - [Integrating PyMOL with PyDesc](#integrating-pymol-with-pydesc)    - [Configuration](#configuration-4)    - [API](#api-3)## ConfigurationTBD## Loading structuresBasis for any study one can perform using PyDesc is loading structure.### Configuration```pythonfrom pydesc.config import ConfigManagerimport pydesc.chemistryimport pydesc.dbhandlerConfigManager.dbhandler.cachedirConfigManager.dbhandler.pdb_handlerConfigManager.chemistry.solvent````cachedir"` -- path to directory where downloaded structure files are stored.`pdb_handler` -- path to local copy of PDB.`solvent` -- list of strings (particle names) to be skipped while loading file.### APIApi for structure loading is available as module `pydesc.api.structure` and contains two functions:```pythonfrom pydesc.api.structure import get_structures, get_structures_from_filestructures = get_structures("1no5")re_loaded_structures = get_structures_from_file("./biodb/pdb/no/1no5.pdb")````get_structures` takes structure id (for PDB, CATH, SCOP or BioUnit) as string and returns list of structure, if it was possible to get to the file. It first tries to load local copy from cache dir, then it tries to download it (and store in cache dir). It returns a list with as many structures, as many models there were in the file. It is often just one, but for NMR or trajectories its longer. To learn mora about trajectories see also [this section](#trajectories). `get_structure_from_file` also loads list of structure, but from single file, not necessarily from cache dir. In this case also it can be file in PDB or mmCIF format.### Simple usageTo quickly load structure and be able to read and edit it, simply run:```pythonfrom pydesc.structure import StructureLoaderstructure_loader = StructureLoader()models_list = structure_loader.load_structures('1no5')structure = models_list[0]  # if there is more than one model in pdb file                            # they are stored in resulting listfor atom_set in structure:    print(atom_set)          # residues, nucleotides or others (ions or ligands)    for atom in atom_set.atoms:        print(atom)```### There is moreTo gain more control over process of loading structure, note that there are detailsthat could be changed. Lets take a look on the example (explained below):```pythonfrom pydesc import dbhandlerfrom pydesc.chemistry import factories as as_factoriesfrom pydesc.structure import StructureLoaderdb_handler = dbhandler.MetaHandler(mode=(3, 2, 1))file_parser = dbhandler.MetaParser(QUIET=True)as_factory = as_factories.BioPythonAtomSetFactory()structure_loader = StructureLoader(    handler=db_handler,    parser=file_parser,    atom_set_factory=as_factory,    )models_db = structure_loader.load_structures(code="1no5")  # download from dbmodels_hd = structure_loader.load_structures(path='tests/data/dbtest/PDB/1nkl')                                                           # download from hard drive````db_handler = dbhandler.MetaHandler(mode=(3, 2, 1))`Handlers are objects responsible for handling structure files.There is at least one for each data base.Meta handler contains them all.Learn more [here](#structure-file-handlers).`file_parser = dbhandler.MetaParser()`Pydesc uses external file parsers, e.g. from BioPython and MDTraj.MetaParser consists of PDBParser and mmCIFParser and executes both on given input.Learn more [here](#file-parsers)`as_factory = as_factories.BioPythonAtomSetFactory()`AtomSet factory is object responsible for creation of structures building blocks.Its settings are important whenever one needs to change way of how and which types of AtomSets are created.Learn more [here](#atomset---structure-building-block). `models_db = structure_loader.load_structures(code="1no5")`That line loads structure using file handler.Argument `code` is passed to handler, so it can be any string comprehensive for such  object, e.g. "cath://1no5" for MetaHandler or "bio://1no5/1" for BioUnitHandler.Learn more [here](#structure-file-handlers).`models_hd = structure_loader.load_structures(path='tests/data/dbtest/PDB/1nkl')`This command loads file form hard drive. Handler is surpassed, file content is given directly to parser.#### Structure file handlersHandlers are objects responsible for handling structure files.There is at least one for each data base.Meta handler contains them all.Handlers store downloaded files in local cache.Therefor users can set their behaviour by setting modes and their priorities:* in mode 3 handler reads local cache* in mode 2 handler copies file from local db to local cache (overwrite)* in mode 1 handler downloads file from remote db to local cache (overwrite)Handler tries to get files in different modes #### File parsersPyDesc does not provide any structure file parser itself.Instead it uses BioPython parsers to read `.pdb` and `.cif` files and MDTraj parsersto read different trajectories.`StructureLoader` can accept:* BioPython's PDBParser* BioPython's MMCIFParser* PyDesc's MetaParser* any object with method and signature such as: `get_structure(code: str, file_path: str)`#### AtomSet - structure building blockTBD#### SubstructuresTBD#### DescriptorsTBD#### Number convertersTBD## TrajectoriesPyDesc copes with trajectories using MDTraj library.Trajectories supposed to be dynamic version of structures, so it should be possible to do with them whatever is possible with structures.### ConfigurationThere is no related configuration.### APITo make it easier to deal with trajectories, API enables some useful functions. Below is an example usage of `api.trajectory.freeze_frame` and `api.trajectory.from_frames`.```pythonfrom pydesc import apifrom pydesc.api import trajectory from pydesc.structure import StructureLoaderfrom pydesc.structure import TrajectoryLoaderstructure_loader = StructureLoader()trajectory_loader = TrajectoryLoader()topology_path = 'tests/data/test_trajectories/topologies/mdm2.pdb'topology = structure_loader.load_structures(path=topology_path)[0]  # note [0]trajectory_path = 'tests/data/test_trajectories/xtc/mdm2_5frames.xtc'dynamic_structure = trajectory_loader.load_trajectory(trajectory_path, topology)frames = []for i in range(5):    dynamic_structure.set_frame(i)    frame = api.trajectory.freeze_frame(dynamic_structure)  # convert frame into structure    frames.append(frame)new_trajectory = api.trajectory.from_frames(frames)         # convert frames to trajectory````api.trajectory.freeze_frames` turns current frame into static structure. Frozen frames no longer change coords when `set_frame` is called.`api.trajectory.from_frames` turns list of static structures (of the same structure) into a trajectory, so it is a reverse operation. It is meant to deal with NMR structures and trajectories stored in pdb files.### Simple usageBasically, to work with trajectory, one needs topology and trajectory file.Topology is to be loaded with `StructureLoader`, trajectory -- with `TrajectoryLoader`, both coming from `structure` submodule.```pythonfrom pydesc.structure import StructureLoaderfrom pydesc.structure import TrajectoryLoaderstructure_loader = StructureLoader()trajectory_loader = TrajectoryLoader()topology_path = 'tests/data/test_trajectories/topologies/mdm2.pdb'topology = structure_loader.load_structures(path=topology_path)[0]  # note [0]trajectory_path = 'tests/data/test_trajectories/xtc/mdm2_5frames.xtc'trajectory = trajectory_loader.load_trajectory(trajectory_path, topology)last_frame = trajectory.get_n_frames()  # 5 in this caseresidue0 = trajectory[0]            # GLUsegment = trajectory[20:30]         # LYS20-PHE30position1 = residue0.ca.vector      # for residue in segment:    print(residue.ca.vector)trajectory.set_frame(3)current_frame = trajectory.get_frame()position2 = residue0.ca.vector      # all values shiftedfor residue in segment:             # as frame shifted    print(residue.ca.vector)```Trajectory loader takes two arguments: path to trajectory file and structure object returned by structure loader.Trajectory object has all the features structure has, plus methods `set_frame`, `get_frame` and `get_n_frames`.From trajectory one can derive all substructures available in PyDesc like segments or contacts, even descriptors to see how they change with time (although the same set  of residues in different frames might not be able to form descriptor any more). It is important to understand that changing trajectory frame will make implicit  changes to derivatives as well.To avoid that, it is possible to freeze frame. See how in `API` section.## SelectionsTBD## Contact mapsContact maps stores data about contacts between mers or ligands (we will refer to them as "mers" to keep it shorter or "atom sets" as common base class for those  objects is called `AtomSet`).Each pair of atom sets therefore have certain contact value, depending on definition of contact.Hence contact map is a matrix of contacts values associated with loaded structure and contact criterion.### ConfigurationThere is no related configuration.### APIAPI for contact maps is stored in two submodules:* `pydesc.api.cmaps`* `pydesc.api.criteria`See [this section](#pre-defined-criteria) to learn more about `criteria`.Module `cmaps` helps perform quick calculation of contact maps:```pythonfrom pydesc.api.cmaps import calculate_contact_mapfrom pydesc.structure import StructureLoaderstructure = StructureLoader().load_structures("1no5")[0]contact_map = calculate_contact_map(structure)```If no criterion was passed, default one is used. To change that simply add argument:```pythonfrom pydesc.api.cmaps import calculate_contact_mapfrom pydesc.api.criteria import get_default_protein_criterionfrom pydesc.structure import StructureLoaderstructure = StructureLoader().load_structures("1no5")[0]criterion = get_default_protein_criterion()contact_map = calculate_contact_map(structure, criterion)```### Simple usageTo calculate contact map one needs structure and contact criterion:```pythonfrom io import StringIOfrom pydesc.contacts import ContactMapCalculatorfrom pydesc.contacts.geometrical import PointsDistanceCriterionfrom pydesc.structure import StructureLoaderstructure_loader = StructureLoader()models_list = structure_loader.load_structures("2bll")structure = models_list[0]criterion = PointsDistanceCriterion("rc", 7.0, 0.5)cm_calculator = ContactMapCalculator(structure, criterion)contact_map = cm_calculator.calculate_contact_map()file_like = StringIO()with file_like as file_h:    contact_map.to_string(file_h)for ids, contact_value in contact_map:    residue1, residue2 = ids        if contact_value == 0:        value_string = " not"    elif contact_value == 1:        value_string = " probably"    else:        value_string = " "    print(f"Residue {residue1} and {residue2} are{value_string} in contact.")cv_12_34 = contact_map.get_contact_value(12, 34)print(f"Contact value for residues 12 and 34 is: {cv_12_34}.")m12_contacts = contact_map.get_atom_set_contacts(12)print("Residue 12 is in contact with:")for ind, value in m12_contacts:    print(f"-residue {ind} (value: {value})")```Structure "2bll" contains only residues.`criterion = PointsDistanceCriterion("rc", 7.0, 0.5)` creates simple contact criterion  based on distance between geometrical centers. More information in   [this section](#contact-criteria). Right now its only important to know that to   calculate contact map users need to provide contact criterion, which is instance of   class implementing certain interface.`cm_calculator = ContactMapCalculator(structure, criterion)` prepares contact map   calculation for given structure according to given contact criterion.`contact_map = cm_calculator.calculate_contact_map()` performs calculation and returns  ContactMap instance. This object stores calculated data.`file_like = StringIO()` creates stream that mimics file handler. Along with `with file_like as file_h: contact_map.to_string(file_h)` it could be replaced with `with open(<path>) as fh: contact_map.to_string(fh)` in order to save results to a  file. `to_string` method converts pydesc inds to PDB ids before writing them to file-like  object.`for ids, contact_value in contact_map: ...` utilises fact that contact maps are iterable. Iterator returns tuples storing two elements: atom set ids and contact value. `ids` is nested tuple with two integers. Contact value is integer 1 or 2. Contacts of value 0 are skipped by iterator.`cv_12_34 = contact_map.get_contact_value(12, 34)` returns value of contact between two sets of atoms. When having access to AtomSet objects -- their ids are stored as `ind` attribute. See [this section](#atomset---structure-building-block) for more information. `m12_contacts = contact_map.get_atom_set_contacts(12)` returns list tuples storing ind of residue in contact and value of that contact. Zero-valued contacts are skipped.### There is more #### Changing contact criteriaAs different types of research might require different types of criteria -- it is possible to use other criteria, for example those defined in PyDesc instead of  default one (see [this section](#pre-defined-criteria) for more information), or   even combine them to get new, more complex, criteria (see [this section   ](#combining-existing-criteria-into-complex-ones) for more information). It is also possible to change thresholds or other settings (see [this section ](#customizing-targets-and-parameters) for more information). In case of customized coarse-grained representation or complicated criteria it might  also make sense to implement new classes (see [this section](#extending-base  -classes) for more information).Whatever is the origin of criteria other than default, using them is as simple as passing them to `ContactMapCalculator` during initialization:```pythonfrom pydesc.contacts import ContactMapCalculatorfrom pydesc.api.criteria import get_default_protein_criterionfrom pydesc.structure import StructureLoaderstructure_loader = StructureLoader()models_list = structure_loader.load_structures('1no5')structure = models_list[0]criterion = get_default_protein_criterion()cm_calculator = ContactMapCalculator(structure, contact_criterion=criterion)contact_map = cm_calculator.calculate_contact_map()```In this case we use pre-defined criterion that was designed by our team. It calculates contacts between residues only and is efficient in terms of time of  computation.#### Contact maps for substructuresIt is possible to calculate contact map for substructure only. To do so substructure should be passed as first argument instead of whole structure  to `ContactMapCalculator` initialization:```pythonfrom pydesc.api.criteria import get_rc_distance_criterionfrom pydesc.contacts import ContactMapCalculatorfrom pydesc.structure import StructureLoaderstructure_loader = StructureLoader()models_list = structure_loader.load_structures('1no5')structure = models_list[0]chain_A = structure.chains[0]criterion = get_rc_distance_criterion()cm_calculator = ContactMapCalculator(chain_A, criterion)chain_A_contact_map = cm_calculator.calculate_contact_map()```In this case we use chain, but that could be any substructure: segment, descriptor or custom subset created on base of selection. Visit other sections to get more  information about creating [descriptors](#descriptors), substructures directly from   other structures ([here](#substructures)) or from [selection](#selections).#### Contacts between two substructuresInstead of intra-structure contacts, one might want to calculate contacts between two substructures, e.g. between two different chains. PyDesc enables that as long as two substructures comes from the same structure (basically: from the same loaded file). To calculate such contact maps one needs to define two selections that can produce desired substructures. Learn more about selections from [this section](#selections).Lets calculate contacts between peptide (chain F) and T-Cell receptor (TRC, chains D and E):```pythonfrom pydesc.api.criteria import get_default_protein_criterionfrom pydesc.contacts import ContactMapCalculatorfrom pydesc.selection import ChainSelectionfrom pydesc.structure import StructureLoaderstructure = StructureLoader().load_structures("4h26")[0]criterion = get_default_protein_criterion()peptide = ChainSelection("F")trc = ChainSelection("D") + ChainSelection("E")cm_calculator = ContactMapCalculator(structure, criterion, selections=(peptide, trc))inter_contact_map = cm_calculator.calculate_contact_map()for i in inter_contact_map:    print(i)```#### Contact CriteriaIn PyDesc contact criteria use three-value logic with possible values being:* 0 -- no contact* 1 -- possible contact* 2 -- sure contactIf it does not make sense to have uncertain value for criterion of usage -- value of 1 is dropped.PyDesc implements several useful criteria. They are all accessible through module `pydesc.contacts.criteria`. Users can use default criteria or create customized ones.##### Pre-defined criteriaPre-defined criteria can be obtained by calling functions stored in `pydesc.contacts.criteria` module.Right now there are two worth mentioning:* geometrical center distance criterion* default protein criterion```pythonfrom pydesc.api.criteria import get_default_protein_criterionfrom pydesc.api.criteria import get_rc_distance_criterionrc_criterion = get_rc_distance_criterion()protein_criterion = get_default_protein_criterion()```Rc criterion works for all kinds of mers (even custom ones defined by users) and ligands. It is fast, but not very accurate (as one would expect for something that works with  any kind of compound). Default thresholds are: * distance up to 7.0Å gives contact value 2 * distance between 7.0Å and 8.0Å gives 1 Those values can be changed by passing additional arguments to function creating  this criterion: `threshold` and `margin`. Actual thresholds are calculated as `threshold - margin` and  `threshold + margin`.Default protein criterion is example of complex criterion. According to that criterion residues are in contact when: * their CAs are less than 5.5Å (value 2) or 6.5Å (value 1) away OR * their CBXs are less than 6.0Å (value 2) or 7.0Å (value 1) away and they are  pointing at each other. To make sure that CBXs are pointing at each other we calculate difference between  two distances: CAs anc CBXs. This distance is expected to be less than 0.75Å with   margin 0.05Å.##### Customizing criteriaThere are different ways of introducing customized criteria to calculation of contact maps with PyDesc:* using existing classes with modified parameters* setting custom targets (like residues, nucleotides etc.)* combining existing or customized criteria to generate new ones* extending existing base classes###### Customizing targets and parametersOne of the most robust criterion in terms of performance is the one taking into account distance between  geometrical center of residues. By default PyDesc uses criterion that was defined  like this:```pythonfrom pydesc.contacts.geometrical import PointsDistanceCriterioncriterion = PointsDistanceCriterion("rc", 7.5, 0.5)```Usage of this criterion during calculation of contact map will give value 2 to each pair of atom sets such that their geometrical centers ("rc" is the name of  pseudoatom representing geometrical center of set of atoms; more about it [here  ](#atomset---structure-building-block)) are closer than 7.5Å - 0.5Å = 7.0Å. Distances in range 7.0Å up to 8.0Å (7.5 + 0.5) will result in contact value of 1 , which means uncertain contact. Everything above 8.0Å will be marked as 0.Obvious way of customizing criterion is passing different arguments to its initializer, e.g.```pythonfrom pydesc.contacts.geometrical import PointsDistanceCriterionfrom pydesc.chemistry.full_atom import Residuefrom pydesc.selection import AtomSetSubclassresidues_selection = AtomSetSubclass(Residue)criterion = PointsDistanceCriterion("cbx", 4.5, 0.25)criterion.set_selection(residues_selection)```In this case we created criterion similar to one of PyDesc defaults, but this time it calculates distances between extended carbon β (cbx), which will give: - 2 for residues with cbxs less than 4.25Å away - 1 for residues with cbxs 4.25 to 4.75 away - 0 for residues with cbxs more than 4.75 awaySince that criterion only makes sens to residues, we added an extra line there --  `criterion.set_selection(residues_selection)`, which tells how the structure will be  narrowed down during calculation of this particular criterion. In this case -- only residues will be used.That features gives another possibility of criterion customization. It allows to decide for which types of atom sets calculation of contacts will be  performed. For example it enables excluding ligands from calculation for certain criteria by passing this selection: ```pythonfrom pydesc.chemistry.base import Merfrom pydesc.selection import AtomSetSubclassfrom pydesc.api.criteria import get_rc_distance_criterionselection = AtomSetSubclass(Mer)criterion = get_rc_distance_criterion()criterion.set_selection(selection)```In this case distance criterion based on distance of geometrical center, by default taking into account mer and all types of ligands (as all have `rc` pseudoatom ) -- works only for mers (i.e. residues and nucleotides).For simple criteria the same can be achieved (preferred way) by calculating contact map for structure lacking ligands (see [that part](#contact-maps-for-substructures)). But for setting selections is necessary in case of complex criteria, e.g. when overall criterion is alternative of, lets say, aromatic and aliphatic residues-specific criteria. See [next section](#combining-existing-criteria-into-complex-ones) for more   information.Take a closer look at built-in documentation for different submodules of `pydesc.contacts` to learn more about already implemented classes of contact criteria.###### Combining existing criteria into complex onesPyDesc provides complex criteria that enable logical entanglement of criteria. Three complex criteria are available: * conjunction (and) * alternative (or) * exclusive disjunction (xor)For mixed structures it might make sense to use two alternative criteria, i.e. one for residues and other one for nucleotides:```pythonfrom pydesc.contacts.base import ContactsAlternativefrom pydesc.contacts.geometrical import PointsDistanceCriterionfrom pydesc.selection import AtomSetSubclassfrom pydesc.chemistry.full_atom import Nucleotide, Residuenucleotide_selection = AtomSetSubclass(Nucleotide)residue_selection = AtomSetSubclass(Residue)nucleotide_criterion = PointsDistanceCriterion('ring_center', 7.0, 1.0)nucleotide_criterion.set_selection(nucleotide_selection)residue_criterion = PointsDistanceCriterion('cbx', 5.0, 1.0)residue_criterion.set_selection(residue_selection)final_criterion = ContactsAlternative(residue_criterion, nucleotide_criterion)```It is also possible to set selection for `final_criterion`, but in case of complex criteria that method sets selections for all sub criteria, so use that with caution , as that is not always wanted (as in the case above).###### Extending base classesIf none of criteria defined in PyDesc is enough and it is impossible to achieve what is needed by combining or customizing settings of existing criteria or result is sub optimal for some reason, it might be a good idea to implement new criterion class. To achieve that task it might be necessary to get familiar with some details of implementation of AtomSet and contact criteria. While this section covers contact criteria, more information about AtomSet is  [here](#atomset---structure-building-block).Easiest way of implementing own criterion class is to extend class `pydesc.contacts.base.ContactCriterion`, which already provides some methods. In particular it provides methods `calculate_contacts` and `calculate_inter_contacts`. They probably should not be overwritten. What they do is narrowing structure down to attached selections, then they both call `_fill_contact_matrix` in way specific to type of contacts to be calculated (intra- or inter-structural, respectively). To extend this subclass one could overwrite `_fill_contact_matrix` (exclusive) or `_calculate_contact`. `ContactCriterion` implements former in rather sub optimal way: it iterates over two nested loops over AtomSet instances from both selections , then calls not implemented method `_calculate_contact`. Overwriting `_fill_contact_matrix` is good choice if there is space for  vectorization, while latter is used when criterion is only easy to calculate when two sets of atoms are accessed directly.Lets take a look at two examples.```pythonfrom pydesc.contacts.base import ContactCriterionfrom pydesc.chemistry.full_atom import Residuefrom pydesc.selection import AtomSetSubclassclass MyCriterion(ContactCriterion):    def __init__(self, threshold, margin):        self.threshold = threshold        self.margin = margin        super().__init__()    def __str__(self):        return "my criterion"    def _calculate_contact(self, atom_set1, atom_set2):        diff = (atom_set1.ca - atom_set2.ca).calculate_length()        if diff < self.threshold:            return 2        elif diff > self.threshold + self.margin:            return 1        return 0criterion = MyCriterion(6.5, 1.0)criterion.set_selection(AtomSetSubclass(Residue))```Signature for this method is `(atom_set1, atom_set2)`, both objects will be AtomSet subclass instances. It should return single integer equal to 0, 1 or 2. In this example implemented  criterion has the same functionality as `PointsDistanceCriterion` in PyDesc  , however interpretation of threshold is different, which might suit some users more. In case of criteria that could be vectorised it is recommended to do so. Lets take a look at criterion below. `PointsDistanceCriterion` already covers that scope, but it is introduced as example  easy to understand. Such criterion calculates distance between alpha carbons and has hard coded thresholds:```pythonimport numpyfrom scipy.spatial.distance import cdistfrom pydesc.contacts.base import ContactCriterionfrom pydesc.chemistry.full_atom import Residuefrom pydesc.selection import AtomSetSubclassclass MyCriterion(ContactCriterion):    def __init__(self):        super().__init__()    def _fill_contact_matrix(self, atom_sets1, atom_sets2, matrix):        structure_ids1 = [atom_set.ind for atom_set in atom_sets1]        structure_ids2 = [atom_set.ind for atom_set in atom_sets2]        points1 = numpy.array([residue.CA.vector for residue in atom_sets1])        points2 = numpy.array([residue.CA.vector for residue in atom_sets2])        dist_mtx = cdist(points1, points2)        possible_contacts = dist_mtx <= 6.0        points1_indexes, points2_indexes = numpy.where(possible_contacts)        inds1, inds2 = structure_ids1[points1_indexes], structure_ids2[points2_indexes]        matrix[inds1, inds2] = 1        sure_contacts = dist_mtx <= 4.5        points1_indexes, points2_indexes = numpy.where(sure_contacts)        inds1, inds2 = structure_ids1[points1_indexes], structure_ids2[points2_indexes]        matrix[inds1, inds2] = 2        return matrixcriterion = MyCriterion()criterion.set_selection(AtomSetSubclass(Residue))```Arguments `atom_sets1` and `atom_sets2` are sequences of residues, it should be easy to turn them into vector or array of coordinates or some other features. `matrix` is sparse, square matrix that should be returned at the end. Each row and column corresponds with the same atom set's ind coming from original  structure. In other words, for each set of atoms, its ind (attribute `ind`) is both index of  column and row that should show all its contact values.In this case first block of code in fast, vectorized calculation of distances between CA atoms, while second sets appropriate contact values in matrix representing  contact map. This particular class if probably useless as it is much more convenient to use  `PointsDistanceCriterion` like this:```pythonfrom pydesc.contacts.geometrical import PointsDistanceCriterionfrom pydesc.chemistry.full_atom import Residuefrom pydesc.selection import AtomSetSubclasscriterion = PointsDistanceCriterion("CA", 5.25, 0.75)criterion.set_selection(AtomSetSubclass(Residue))```But it helps to understand the concept.## Structure comparison### OverfitTBD### CompdescTBD### FitDescTBD## AlignmentsTBD## Integration with PyMOLPyDesc was meant to be used in scripts and programs, but it can also help in EDA. Sometimes opportunity to take a look at structures we work with can greatly help in understanding the problem, whether it is development of some tool or research.Knowing this we introduced some functions that utilise broadly used visualisation software for biomolecules -- PyMOL. Integration is not full, there is no PyMOL plugin associated with PyDesc, rather bunch of useful scripts. Reason for that being our understanding of how PyDesc could be used, which is: as scripts, probably run on  clusters without graphical environment. Keeping that in mind we imagine that reason why one would need to run PyDesc with PyMOL is either to take a look at structures or  contact maps in the middle of some kind of script or at the very end of research, to  visualise results. Either way -- not using PyMOL to perform any heavy computation.Basic functionality covered by provided functions covers:* structure visualisation* contact map visualisation* creating selection representing different PyDesc objects* (future) trajectory visualisation* (future) visualisation of PyDesc alignments as superposition:    * of structures    * of descriptors### Integrating PyMOL with PyDescPyMOL uses its ovn copy od Python, so just having PyDesc installed in Python is not enough.There are two ways of integrating PyMOL with PyDesc:1. install PyDesc in PyMOL's copy of Python1. build PyMOL from source and include installed PyDesc library#### Install PyDescTBD#### Build own PyMOL from source1. clone repo `git clone https://github.com/schrodinger/pymol-open-source/blob/master`1. `cd pymol-open-source`1. install all pre-requirements1. run `PREFIX_PATH=<site-packages> python setup.py install --prefix=<install-dir>`, where `<site-packages>` is path to `site-packages` dir with PyDesc installed of your  local Python 3.6+ and `<install-dir>` is directory to install pymol to.1. to run pymol execute `<install-dir>/bin/pymol`Trick for `freetype`, which sometimes is not recognised by C++ compiler:- locate you freetype directory (`<freetype-dir>`)- set variable `CPATH=<freetype-dir>` in the same line where `python setup.py` is called### ConfigurationThere is no related configuration.### APIAll functions related to PyMOL are provided in `api` module.This module requires PyMOL to be installed, otherwise it is impossible (well, very hard) to import it.It provides subsequent functions:* draw_structures* draw_contact* draw_contact_maps* select#### Visualising structures ```pythonfrom pydesc.api.pymol import draw_structuresfrom pydesc.structure import StructureLoaderloader = StructureLoader()structures = loader.load_structures("2ljp") # 20 NMR structuredraw_structures(structures) ```For more detailed description of structure loading look [here](#loading-structures).Line `draw_structures(structures)` creates single object in PyMOL and puts 20 structures loaded by PyDesc as separate states of that object.Every structure that we want to visualise in PyMOL is added to registry with its PyMOL  object name and state. Changing any of it in PyMOL will have unpredicted consequences. `draw_structures(structures, split_states=True)` would load them as 20 separate objects.Note that is order to load single structure one still needs to pass list (with single  item) as first argument.#### Visualising contact mapsTo see how to draw contact maps consider following code: ```pythonfrom pydesc.api.criteria import get_default_protein_criterionfrom pydesc.api.pymol import draw_contact_mapsfrom pydesc.api.pymol import draw_structuresfrom pydesc.contacts import ContactMapCalculatorfrom pydesc.structure import StructureLoaderloader = StructureLoader()structures = loader.load_structures("2ljp") # 20 NMR structuresdraw_structures(structures)criterion = get_default_protein_criterion()contact_maps = []for structure in structures:    cm_calculator = ContactMapCalculator(structure, criterion)    contact_map = cm_calculator.calculate_contact_map()    contact_maps.append(contact_map)draw_contact_maps(contact_maps) ```Note that `draw_structures(structures)` line is required in order to have contact maps drawn. To learn more about this function read [this section](#visualising-structures).For description of contact map calculation look [here](#contact-maps).Line `draw_contact_maps(contact_maps)` will add two contact maps: red one showing all  certain (according to given contact criterion) contacts (contact value 2); and orange  one for uncertain contacts (contact value 1). Since maps were calculated for structures stored in different states of single PyMOL  object -- to see then one needs to change visualised state (in PyMOL press ">" and "<" in right bottom panel to change states).If structures were loaded with `split_states` argument set to `True`, `draw_contact_maps` would simply draw two separate maps for each structure.Note that to draw single contact map one still needs to pass single-item list as first argument.Function `draw_contact_maps` also takes optional arguments:* `split_contacts` -- by default set to False, otherwise it creates different object  for each contact in contact map rather than storing all contacts as two contact maps.* `structures` -- list of structures to draw contact maps on. By default each map is  drawn on structure it was calculated for. This arguments allows to draw contact map  calculated for one conformation on another conformation. It only makes sense to draw  contact maps calculated for single conformation on another conformation of the same  molecule, so e.g. different NMR frames, different x-ray crystals of the same protein  or different frames of molecular dynamics. See example below.* `point` -- name of atom or pseudoatom to be pointed at by two ends of dashed line  representing contact. By default it is `rc`, which is geometrical center of set of atoms (or its side chain). Function will skip contacts for mers that lack chosen (pseudo)atom (`rc` is always present). That option makes sense only for contact maps for very specific cases, e.g. for nucleic acids it makes sense to chang it to (`ring_center`).Lets take a closer look at `2ljp` NMR structure. ```pythonfrom pydesc.api.criteria import get_default_protein_criterionfrom pydesc.api.pymol import draw_contact_mapsfrom pydesc.api.pymol import draw_structuresfrom pydesc.contacts import ContactMapCalculatorfrom pydesc.structure import StructureLoaderloader = StructureLoader()structures = loader.load_structures("2ljp") draw_structures(structures, split_states=True)criterion = get_default_protein_criterion()cm_calculator = ContactMapCalculator(structures[0], criterion)contact_map = cm_calculator.calculate_contact_map()draw_contact_maps([contact_map], structures=[structures[1]]) ```In that case we see how contacts calculated for frame 1 would "stretch" while mobile  N-terminus changes conformation, floating away from middle of protein.Additionally it is possible to draw single contacts with `draw_contact` function. It  takes three positional arguments: * structure or substructure * two atom set indicatorsFor example, to previous example one could add: ```pythondraw_contact(structure[0], 12, 34)segment = structure[0][12:34]draw_contact(segment, 13, 33) ```to add single contacts, even though they are not present in contact maps.Similarly to `draw_contact_maps`, `draw_contact` takes optional arguments: * `point` -- doing the same for both functions. * `contact_name` -- to change default name to the one passed as this argument. * `gap` -- float, length of gap between dashes of drawn line.#### Visualising pseudoatomsIt is possible to calculate some pseudoatoms for mers and entities. They are often important for contact maps and descriptors. To visualise them one could use `draw_pseudoatoms` function: ```pythonfrom pydesc.api.pymol import draw_pseudoatomsfrom pydesc.api.pymol import draw_structuresfrom pydesc.structure import StructureLoaderloader = StructureLoader()structures = loader.load_structures("2ljp") # 20 NMR structuredraw_structures(structures)for structure in structures:    draw_pseudoatoms(structure, "rc") ```Executing this example should display additional pseudoatoms near each residue. They will all be accessible in PyMOL as `2ljp_rc`, unless additional argument  `split_states=True` is passed. With that argument set to `True`, each pseudoatom  has its own name. It is also possible to display pseudoatoms as "bonded" with some other (pseudo)atoms  of their set of atoms. To do so simply add `anchor_name=<(psuedo)atom name>`, e.g.: `draw_pseudoatoms(structure, 'cbx', anchor_name='CA')` Putting that line inside last loop should display `cbx` pseudoatoms "bonded" with  alpha carbons. Word "bonded" is abused here, as those pseudoatoms are in fact bonded with another pseudoatoms created at exact position of actual anchor.#### Selecting PyDesc substructures in PyMOLTerm "selection" means something different in PyDesc and in PyMOL.Different types of substructures, e.g. descriptors, that one can create in PyDesc can  be turned into selections in PyMOL, if their parent structure was already drawn. To do so, one needs function `select`, which takes two arguments: * (sub)structure (PyDesc object), e.g. segment or descriptor. * name of selection to be created (its optional, by default name "sele" is passed).Selections can be later visualised in different ways.Note that PyMOL selections have no sense of object states, which might cause some  unexpected behaviour for structures loaded as different states.## END